=head1 NAME

slmbuild - generate language model from idngram file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

slmbuild [I<option>]... I<idngram_file>...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<slmbuild> generates a back-off smoothing language model from a given idngram file. Generally, the I<idngram_file> is created by B<ids2ngram>.


=head1 OPTIONS
All the following options are mandatory.

=over 4

=item B<-n>,B<--NMax> I<N>

1 for unigram, 2 for bigram, 3 for trigram. Any number not in the range of 1..3 is not valid.


=item B<-o>, B<--out> I<output-file>

Specify the output xfilei name.


=item B<-l>, B<--log>

using I<-log(pr)>, use I<pr> directly by default.


=item B<-w>, B<--wordcount> I<N>

Lexican size, number of different words.


=item B<-b>, B<--brk> I<id>...

Set the ids which should be treated as breaker.


=item B<-e>, B<--e> I<id>...

Set the ids which should not be put into LM.


=item B<-c>, B<--cut> I<c>...

k-grams whose freq <= c[k] are dropped.


=item B<-d>, B<--discount> I<method>, I<param>...

The k-th B<-d> parm specifies the discount method

For k-gram, possibble values for method/param are:

      B<GT>,I<R>,I<dis>  : B<GT> discount for r E<lt>= I<R>, r is the freq of a ngram.
                  Linear discount for those r E<gt> I<R>, i.e. r'=r*dis
                  0 E<lt>E<lt> dis E<lt> 1.0, for example 0.999 
      B<ABS>,[I<dis>] : Absolute discount r'=r-I<dis>. And I<dis> is optional
                  0 E<lt>E<lt> I<dis> E<lt> cut[k]+1.0, normally I<dis> E<lt> 1.0.
      LIN,[I<dis>] : Linear discount r'=r*dis. And dis is optional
                  0 E<lt> dis E<lt> 1.0

=back


=head1 NOTE

B<-n> must be given before B<-c> B<-b>. And B<-c> must give right number of cut-off,
also B<-d>s must appear exactly N times specifying the discounts for 1-gram, 2-gram..., 
respectively.

BREAKER-IDs could be SentenceTokens or ParagraphTokens. Conceptually,
these ids have no meaning when they appeared in the middle of n-gram.

EXCLUDE-IDs could be ambiguious-ids. Conceptually, n-grams which
contain those ids are meaningless.

We can not erase ngrams according to BREAKER-IDS and EXCLUDE-IDs directly
from IDNGRAM file, because some low-level information is still useful in it.


=head1 EXAMPLE

Following example read 'all.id3gram' and write trigram model 'all.slm'.

At 1-gram level, use Good-Turing discount with cut-off 0, i<R>=8, I<dis>=0.9995. At
2-gram level, use Absolute discount with cut-off 3, dis auto-calc. At 3-gram
level, use Absolute discount with cut-off 2, dis auto-calc. Word id 10,11,12
are breakers (sentence/para/paper breaker, etc). Exclude-ID is 9. Lexicon 
contains 200000 words. The result languagme model uses -log(pr).

B<slmbuild -l -n 3 -o all.slm -w 200000 -c 0,3,2 -d GT,8,0.9995 -d ABS -d ABS -b 10,11,12 -e 9 all.id3gram>


=head1 AUTHOR

Originally written by Phill.Zhang E<lt>phill.zhang@sun.comE<gt>.
Currently maintained by Kov.Chai E<lt>tchaikov@gmail.comE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<ids2ngram>(1), B<slmprune>(1).

